https://www.guru99.com/exploratory-testing-tools.html::10 best exploratory testing tools (nov 2022) skip to content home testing expand agile testing junit quality center(alm) bugzilla hp loadrunner rpa cucumber software testing sap testing database testing mobile testing selenium etl testing mantis soapui jmeter postman test management jira qtp testlink sap expand abap crm pi/po apo crystal reports pp beginners fico sd basis hana sapui5 bods hr security tutorial bi/bw mm solution manager bpc qm successfactors co payroll sap courses web expand apache java php sql server angularjs jsp pl/sql uml asp.net kotlin postgresql vb.net c linux python vbscript c# mariadb reactjs web services c++ ms access ruby & rails wpf codeigniter mysql scala sqlite dbms node.js sql perl javascript must learn expand accounting embedded systems operating system algorithms ethical hacking pmp android excel tutorial photoshop blockchain go programming project management business analyst iot reviews build website itil salesforce cloud computing jenkins seo cobol mis software engineering compiler design movie vba courses networking vpn big data expand aws hive power bi big data informatica qlikview cassandra microstrategy tableau cognos mongodb talend data warehousing nifi zookeeper devops obiee pentaho hbase live project expand live agile testing live selenium project live hp alm live selenium 2 live java project live security testing live mobile testing live testing project live payment gateway live testing 2 live php project live telecom live projects hub live uft/qtp testing live python project live seo project ai expand artificial intelligence pytorch data science r programming keras tensorflow nltk search toggle menu 10 best exploratory testing tools (nov 2022) bythomas hamilton hours updatednovember 5, 2022 exploratory testing is a type of software testing in which test cases are not created in advance, but testers can check system on the fly. this type of testing allows you to perform test design and execution simultaneously without much planning. following is a handpicked list of top free exploratory testing tools, with their popular features and website links. the list contains both open source(free) and commercial(paid) software. top exploratory testing tools & chrome extensions 1) xray exploratory app (xea) the xray exploratory app (xea) streamlines the process of exploratory testing by giving you the tools to capture evidence and easily share your insights. xea eases the process of documentation so you can cover more untested code, discover new testing scenarios, and find hard to catch bugs. features: create a test session or “test charter” to track your time record videos, make screenshots, take notes and do annotations test web, desktop or even mobile-based applications use as standalone desktop app or integrate with xray and jira export testing sessions to pdf or directly to your test runs in xray more information >> 2) bug magnet bug magnet is a session tester for chrome and firefox. the tool helps you to include common problematic values and edge cases. it is one of the best exploratory tools that provides easy access during exploratory test sessions. features: allows you to extend with your customize config files works on multi-frame pages, only when they are of the same domain ccompletely passive, so this software never interfere with your web app test execution link: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/bug-magnet/efhedldbjahpgjcneebmbolkalbhckfi 3) exploratory testing chrome extension it is a chrome extension that is use for web exploratory testing. this extension report bugs, ideas, notes, etc. features: report bugs, ideas, notes, and questions easily take screenshots during the session. keep focused helps you to track url automatically see session results in a report save and import session export session to json,csv or html formats. link: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/exploratory-testing-chrom/khigmghadjljgjpamimgjjmpmlbgmekj 4) qtest explorer qtest is easy to use, scalable test management solution that allows testers to centralize, and speed up test management. qtest exploratory testing tool makes every step of the qa process simpler and more effective. features: qtest centralizes test automation management and integrates with any open-source or proprietary test automation tool. leave a legacy behind for an enterprise-grade test management solution qtest simplifies developer-tester alignment with a real-time jira integration create meaningful reports with your jira data seamlessly integrated with agile and devops tools. link: https://www.tricentis.com/products/agile-dev-testing-qtest/exploratory-testing-qtest-explorer/ 5) azure test plans azure test plans exploratory testing tool, which helps you to improve your code quality for your apps. features: capture rich scenario data for exploratory testing it helps you to test your application by executing tests across desktop or web apps. it allows you to plan, execute, and track scripted tests with actionable defects. more information >> 6) test studio explore telerik test studio is an exploratory testing tool to test web and desktop applications of all windows os. it is one of the best tools for exploratory testing which allows you to test functionality, load, and the performance of the web and mobile apps. it also offers a plugin to check cross-browsing issues. features: native in build support for the telerik ui controls it helps you to capture bugs and send feedback in your exploratory testing sessions. testing html popups and browser dialogs support for javascript invocation and logging allows continuous integration to use the build server it is designed to be light-weight, handy, and easy to launch and access. link: https://www.telerik.com/teststudio 7) testrail testrail is a highly comprehensive web-based test case management software and exploratory testing tool. the tool efficiently manages, track, and organize your software testing efforts. features: it helps you to track and follow the status of individual tests, milestones, and projects with dashboards and activity reports. execute your tests and track instant results offers test actionable reports, metrics and real-time insights you can integrate with bug trackers link: https://www.gurock.com/testrail/ 8) smartbear zephyr smartbear zephyr is another useful exploratory testing tool. it provides providing end-to-end solutions for agile teams of all sizes. it also offers single-click integration with jira, jenkins, bamboo, and more. features: advanced analytics and devops dashboards allows you to capture as an image annotation tool for solving jira issues no annual commitment required cloud, server, and data center deployment options helps you to teach agile team members with collaborative software testing link: https://www.getzephyr.com/insights/why-capture-jira-essential-exploratory-testing-tool 9) rapid reporter rapid reporter is exploratory notetaking application. it works in such a way that it takes notes during an uninterrupted testing session and review of these notes afterward. features: it is a standalone tool, so no installation required. it can be used across different computers from your usb disk-on-key. it is always-on-top of your screen, so you don’t need to search for it on their desktop. you can take notes one by one in one-liners. note types can be changed while you type by with the help of directional keys. the application allows you to take screenshots on-demand you can save notes in csv text files, which helps you to combine text flexibility with a spreadsheet. link: http://testing.gershon.info/reporter/ 10) spiracapture spiracapture is an exploratory testing tool chrome extension. the tool records and organizes your testing session. it is a free tool, so you don’t need to connect to any other software. features: helps you to capture your activity and take notes or screenshots about what happened allows you to capture keystrokes, clicks, url changes, and network errors limit recording only to that browser which you have selected offers simplify communication with your team. link: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/spiracapture-exploratory/naknodgmafmgdbpkjbanlgnhlpificmj faqs: ❓ what are exploratory testing tools? exploratory testing tools are the programs that help testers to check the system on the fly. these tools allow you to perform test design and execution simultaneously without much planning. exploratory testing tools also help to automate the testing process, collaborate with teams and create reports with ease. 💻 which are the best exploratory testing tools? below are some of the best exploratory testing tools: xray exploratory app (xea) bug magnet exploratory testing qtest explorer azure test plans 🌟 why choose the correct exploratory testing tool? choosing a correct exploratory testing tool is important as it helps the testing team to test the system on the go without planning. it also helps the team identify various bugs, track progress, automate the process, and collaborate with team members in order to simplify the testing process. 👉 which factors should you consider while selecting an exploratory testing tool? you should consider the following factors while selecting an exploratory testing tool: easy to set up and use license cost if applicable quality of customer support the cost involved in training employees on the exploratory testing tool hardware/software requirements of the remote access tool support and update policy of the exploratory testing tool vendor reviews of the company collaboration features deployment options integration with other software tools you might like: unit testing tutorial – what is, types & test example testing insurance domain applications with sample test cases fuzz testing (fuzzing) tutorial do testers have to write code? mainframe testing – complete tutorial post navigation report a bug previous prev next continue top tutorials about about us advertise with us write for us contact us python testing hacking career suggestion sap career suggestion tool software testing as a career interesting ebook blog quiz sap ebook sap java sql execute online execute java online execute javascript execute html execute python selenium cryptocurrency vpns © copyright - guru99 2022 privacy policy | affiliate disclaimer | tos scroll to top home testingexpand child menu expand agile testing junit quality center(alm) bugzilla hp loadrunner rpa cucumber software testing sap testing database testing mobile testing selenium etl testing mantis soapui jmeter postman test management jira qtp testlink sapexpand child menu expand abap crm pi/po apo crystal reports pp beginners fico sd basis hana sapui5 bods hr security tutorial bi/bw mm solution manager bpc qm successfactors co payroll sap courses webexpand child menu expand apache java php sql server angularjs jsp pl/sql uml asp.net kotlin postgresql vb.net c linux python vbscript c# mariadb reactjs web services c++ ms access ruby & rails wpf codeigniter mysql scala sqlite dbms node.js sql perl javascript must learnexpand child menu expand accounting embedded systems operating system algorithms ethical hacking pmp android excel tutorial photoshop blockchain go programming project management business analyst iot reviews build website itil salesforce cloud computing jenkins seo cobol mis software engineering compiler design movie vba courses networking vpn big dataexpand child menu expand aws hive power bi big data informatica qlikview cassandra microstrategy tableau cognos mongodb talend data warehousing nifi zookeeper devops obiee pentaho hbase live projectexpand child menu expand live agile testing live selenium project live hp alm live selenium 2 live java project live security testing live mobile testing live testing project live payment gateway live testing 2 live php project live telecom live projects hub live uft/qtp testing live python project live seo project aiexpand child menu expand artificial intelligence pytorch data science r programming keras tensorflow nltk toggle menu close search for: search
